# Codexial Project

## Description
Codexial is a project developed as a two-day solo exercise. It's designed as an application for pharmacy representatives, enabling them to record the number of boxes sold in a pharmacy each day. The application also includes an admin panel for reviewing these sales data.

## Getting Started

These instructions will guide you on how to get a copy of the project up and running on your local machine for development and testing purposes.

### Prerequisites
- PHP 7.4 or higher
- MySQL
- Composer
- npm

## Steps

1. **Clone the Repository**
    ```
    git clone https://github.com/bugBuster42/Codexial.git
    ```

2. **Install PHP Dependencies**
   
    Navigate to the cloned repository directory:
    ```
    cd Codexial
    ```
    and run:
    ```
    composer install
    ```
3. **Install and Build Front-End Dependencies**
    - Still in the project directory, install the front-end dependencies using Yarn
      ```
      npm install
      ```
    - Build Assets
      ```
      npm run build
      ```
4. **Database Configuration**

   To set up the database for the project, follow these steps:
   
    - **Update the `.env.local` File for Database Connection**:
        - Navigate to your project directory and locate the `.env.local` file.
        - Uncomment the MySQL database URL line and comment out the PostgreSQL line:
          ```
          # Comment this line if using PostgreSQL
          #DATABASE_URL="postgresql://app:!ChangeMe!@127.0.0.1:5432/app?serverVersion=15&charset=utf8"
          
          # Uncomment and update this line for MySQL
          DATABASE_URL="mysql://app:!ChangeMe!@127.0.0.1:3306/app?serverVersion=8.0.32&charset=utf8mb4"
          ```
        - Replace `app`, `!ChangeMe!`, and `app` in the uncommented line with your MySQL username, password, and database name, respectively.

    - **Create a MySQL Database**:
        - Open your Terminal.
        - Connect to MySQL:
          ```
          mysql -u [username] -p
          ```
        - Create a new database:
          ```
          CREATE DATABASE [database_name];
          ```
        - Replace `[username]` and `[database_name]` with your MySQL username and the name of the new database.

   - **Apply Database Migrations**:
       After setting up your database and credentials, apply migrations to create the necessary database structure:  
    
      ```
      symfony console d:m:m
      ```
      This command will execute the migration files and set up the database structure according to your entity configurations.
      
       Once the database is set up and migrations are applied, load the data fixtures to populate the database with necessary initial data:  
    
        ```
         symfony console d:f:l
        ```
   
       This will load the data defined in your fixtures files into the database, which may include necessary user accounts and other initial data.
       
5. **Default User Accounts**
- To log in to the application for the first time, use the credentials defined in the `UserFixtures` file.
- You can find this file at src/DataFixtures/UserFixtures.php.
- The file contains the default usernames and passwords for initial user accounts.

6. **Run the Application**
    - Start the Symfony server:
      ```
      symfony server:start
      ```

7. **Access the Application**
    - Open `http://localhost:8000` in your browser to interact with the application.

## Additional Information

- This project was developed as a practice exercise and not include all functionalities of a complete application.
- The data generated by fixtures is for demonstration purposes and can be modified or extended as needed.
